.\" @(#)addimgs.1;
.TH ADDIMGS 1 "13 July 2001" "CNU Tools" "CNU Tools"
.SH NAME
addimgs \- adds multiple data images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B addimgs
.I infile1
[
.I infile2
[
.I infile3
[...]
]
]
.BI \-o \ outfile
.LP
[
.B \-t
|
.B \-td
.I templatefile1
[
.I templatefile2
[...]
]
]
[
.B \-avg
]
.LP
[
.B \-uchar
|
.B \-char
|
.B \-ushort
|
.B \-short
|
.B \-uint
|
.B \-int
|
.B \-float
|
.B \-double
]
.LP
[
.B \-analyze
|
.B \-nifti
|
.B \-ecat
|
.B \-ecat7
|
.B \-dicom
|
.B \-sdt
]
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B addimgs
sums data images.
Also allows averaging and templating as noted below.
.TP
.B Note
\- The output type defaults to largest input type.
ANALYZE output is truncated to fit output type without scaling.
ECAT output is scaled because the quantification factor is more
rigidly implemented.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I infile1 infile2 infile3 ...
file names of images to be added with or without .img.
Requires at least one input file. All arguments not recognized
as other options and prior to -t or -td option are treated as
input file names.
.TP
.BI -o \ outfile
output file name with or without file type extension (i.e. ".img").
.TP
.B \-t
treat any further unrecognized arguments as templates to be
combined and used on the added images. The templates
are anded together in that only pixels that pass all templates are
set to the added pixel values. Other pixels default to 0.
.TP
.B \-td
treat any further unrecognized arguments as templates to be
added and used to divide the added images.
Pixels where the template sum is zero default to 0.
This performs a weighted average based on how many input pixels
contribute to the output pixel. Not compatible with -avg option.
Images should be templated before adding to remove
contributions from pixels outside the templates.
.TP
.I templatefile1 templatefile2 ...
file names of templates to be applied to added image. All arguments
not recognized as other options followin -t or -td are treated
as templates.
.TP
.B \-avg
divide sum by number of input files - not compatible with -td option
.TP
.B \-uchar
output data of type unsigned character(defaults to input data type)
.TP
.B \-char
output data of type signed character
.TP
.B \-ushort
output data of type unsigned short
.TP
.B \-short
output data of type signed short
.TP
.B \-uint
output data of type unsigned integer
.TP
.B \-int
output data of type signed integer
.TP
.B \-float
output data of type float
.TP
.B \-double
output data of type double
.TP
.B \-analyze
output file in ANALYZE format(defaults to input file format)
.TP
.B \-nifti
output file in NIFTI format
.TP
.B \-ecat
output file in ECAT format
.TP
.B \-ecat7
output file in ECAT7 format
.TP
.B \-dicom
output file in DICOM format
.TP
.B \-sdt
output file in SDT format
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR add2imgs (1),
.BR divideimgs (1),
.BR diff2imgs (1),
.BR cnuintro (3)
