.\" @(#)analyzeheaderedit.1;
.TH ANALYZEHEADEREDIT 1 "16 January 2003" "CNU Tools" "CNU Tools"
.SH NAME
analyzeheaderedit \- allows editing analyze header files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B analyzeheaderedit
.I infile1
[
.B \-textin
]
.I outfile
.LP
[
.BI \-ed \ editor \ | \ \- \ | \ none
]
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B analyzeheaderedit
allows interactive or script editting of ANALYZE header files.
Either an text editor is invoked on a tmp file containing ANALYZE header values
in the form printed by the program analyzeheader or lines may be input directly
from standard in.  The lines edited or input directly must correspond to the format
output by analyzeheader.  Values not typed in when reading from standard input or
deleted while editing will keep their original values.  A full header with values
changed by the editor or standard in is written to the outfile when the editor is
quit or standard input is ended (as with control-d).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I infile1
input file name with or without .hdr extension
.TP
.B \-textin
this option reads the input file as a text file containing lines of the form
output by analyzeheader and creates a binary analyze header file.
This the main reason for the editor choice of none.
.TP
.I \ outfile
output file name with or without .hdr extension
.TP
.BI \-ed \ editor \ | \ \- \ | \ none
name of editor such as vi or emacs or \- to read from standard input or
none to not invoke an editor
(none being mainly for the \-textin option).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR analyzeheader (1),
.BR cnuintro (3)



