.\" @(#)bldshape.1;
.TH BLDSHAPE 1 "6 March 1996" "CNU Tools" "CNU Tools"
.SH NAME
bldshape \- build shape
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI bldshape \ outfile
.nf
\fR[ \fB\-if \fIinfile \fR| \fB\-size \fIxdim,ydim,zdim,idim \fR]
\fR[ \fB\-b \fIxorig,yorig,zorig,xend,yend,zend \fR|
  \fB\-bc \fIxcenter,ycenter,zcenter,xlength,ylength,zlength \fR|
  \fB\-c \fIxcenter,ycenter,zcenter,radius \fR|
  \fB\-e \fIxcenter,ycenter,zcenter,xlength,ylength,zlength \fR|
  \fB\-alt \fIax,ay,az,ai \fR]
\fR[\fB\-fg \fIforeground_value\fR] \fR[\fB\-bg \fIbackground_value \fR| \fB\-bif\fR]
\fR[\fB\-uchar \fR| \fB\-char \fR| \fB\-ushort \fR| \fB\-short \fR| \fB\-uint \fR| \fB\-int \fR| \fB\-float\fR] \fR[\fB\-analyze \fR| \fB\-ecat\fR]
\fR[\fB\-analyze \fR| \fB\-nifti \fR| \fB\-ecat \fR| \fB\-ecat7 \fR| \fB\-dicom \fR| \fB\-sdt\fR]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B bldshape
builds a constant value simple 3d image shape. The shape may be written
with a constant value background or with an existing image in the background.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I outfile
output ANALYZE/ECAT file. File type is ANALYZE unless input file is
specified and ECAT. Data type is unsigned character unless input
file is used for background(\-bif) and then data type is set to input type.
.TP
.BI \-if \ infile
optional input ANALYZE/ECAT file name with or without .img extension.
Output dimensions and file type are derived from this file.
.TP
.BI \-size \ xdim,ydim,zdim,idim
dimensions for output file. Ignored if infile is specified.
.TP
.BI \-b \ xorig,yorig,zorig,xend,yend,zend
bounds in pixel coordinates describing a box shape
to create.
.TP
.BI \-bc \ xcenter,ycenter,zcenter,xlength,ylength,zlength
centroid and size in pixel coordinates describing a box shape
to create.
.TP
.BI \-c \ xcenter,ycenter,zcenter,radius
centroid and radius in pixel coordinates describing a spherical shape
to create.
.TP
.BI -e \ xcenter,ycenter,zcenter,xlength,ylength,zlength
centroid and major axis lengths in pixel coordinates describing a
spherical shape to create.
.TP
.BI -alt \ ax,ay,az,ai
lengths in pixels between background and foreground value switching
describing an alternating checkerboard pattern
.TP
.B foreground_value
value to assign to pixels inside the shape
.TP
.B background_value
value to assign to pixels outside the shape. Ignored with infile and
\-bif option.
.TP
.B \-bif
background input file\(ie. assign pixels outside the shape values from
corresponding pixels in the input file\).
.TP
.B \-uchar
output data of type unsigned character(defaults to input data type)
.TP
.B \-char
output data of type signed character
.TP
.B \-ushort
output data of type unsigned short
.TP
.B \-short
output data of type signed short
.TP
.B \-uint
output data of type unsigned integer
.TP
.B \-int
output data of type signed integer
.TP
.B \-float
output data of type float
.TP
.B \-double
output data of type double
.TP
.B \-analyze
output file in ANALYZE format(defaults to input file format)
.TP
.B \-nifti
output file in NIFTI format
.TP
.B \-ecat
output file in ECAT format
.TP
.B \-ecat7
output file in ECAT7 format
.TP
.B \-dicom
output file in DICOM format
.TP
.B \-sdt
output file in SDT format
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cnuintro (3),
.BR roistats (1),
.BR bldtemplate (1),
.BR templateimg (1)
