.\" @(#)ecat2analyze.1;
.TH ECAT2ANALYZE 1 "2 August 1994" "CNU Tools" "CNU Tools"
.SH NAME
ecat2analyze \- ECAT to ANALYZE file conversion
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B ecat2analyze
.I infile
.I outfile
[
.B \-noflip
]
[
.B \-noscale
]
.LP
[
.B \-short
|
.B \-uchar
|
.B \-int
|
.B \-float
|
.B \-double
]
.LP
[
.BI \-xb \ xbeg
]
[
.BI \-xe \ xend
]
[
.BI \-yb \ ybeg
]
[
.BI \-ye \ yend
]
.LP
[
.BI \-zb \ zbeg
]
[
.BI \-ze \ zend
]
[
.BI \-ib \ ibeg
]
[
.BI \-ie \ iend
]
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B ecat2analyze
converts from ECAT file format to ANALYZE file format.  The maximum of
the image is scaled to fit the output type.  Negative values are set
to zero for unsigned output types.  The default output type is short.
By default the rows(y direction) are flipped for correct
interpretation of anterior and posterior when displayed by ANALYZE.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I infile
input ECAT file name with or without .img extension
.TP
.I outfile
output ANALYZE file name with or without .img
.TP
.B \-frame  first[,last]
first and last frame numbers to grab from ECAT file
.TP
.B \-noflip
do not flip frame rows
.TP
.B \-noscale
do not scale image to fit maximum range into output type.  Values
outside the range of the output type will be lost
.TP
.B \-short
output data of type short
.TP
.B \-uchar
output data of type unsigned character
.TP
.B \-int
output data of type integer
.TP
.B \-float
output data of type float
.TP
.B \-double
output data of type double
.TP
.I xbeg, ybeg, zbeg, ibeg
Beginning location of region to convert.
Values not specified default to input image origin.
.TP
.I xend, yend, zend, iend
Ending location of region to convert.
Values not specified default to input image end.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ecatheader (1),
.BR brainextents (1),
.BR cnuintro (3)
