.\" @(#)imgmath.1;
.TH IMGMATH 1 "13 July 2001" "CNU Tools" "CNU Tools"
.SH NAME
imgmath \- apply a unitary pixel wise math function on a data image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B imgmath
.PD 0
.I infile
.I outfile
.B \-sqrt
|
.B \-square
|
.B \-abs
|
.B \-inv
[
.B \-auto
|
.BI \-s \ scale_factor
]
.LP
[
.B \-set[_new_quantification]
]
[
.BI \-t \ translation
]
.LP
[
.BI \-ge \ min_thresh
|
.BI \-gf \ min_thresh_factor
[
.BI \-minv \ min_value
]
]
.LP
[
.BI \-le \ max_thresh
[
.BI \-maxv \ max_value
]
]
.LP
[
.B \-uchar
|
.B \-char
|
.B \-ushort
|
.B \-short
|
.B \-uint
|
.B \-int
|
.B \-float
|
.B \-double
]
.LP
[
.B \-analyze
|
.B \-nifti
|
.B \-ecat
|
.B \-ecat7
|
.B \-dicom
|
.B \-sdt
]
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B imgmath
applies a single unitary pixel wise math function to an image.  All
internal calculations are done with double precision math and then
converted to the output type.  The ouput defaults to the input data
type.  The user may specify the same scaling options as those for
scaleimg(1) which are applied to the double precision results of the
operation.
.LP
Note - since quantification values are ignored for ANALYZE
images they may not produce the desired results.  Work with ECAT
images or floating point ANALYZE images to get cleaner results.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I infile
input ANALYZE or ECAT file name with or without .img extension
.TP
.I outfile
output ANALYZE/ECAT file name with or without .img extension
.TP
.I \-sqrt
calculate the square root of each pixel.  Values less then 0 are set
to -1 to flag them.  A "-ge 0" flag below may be used to removes these
-1 values setting them to 0.
.TP
.I \-square
calculate the square of each pixel.  Note \- with limited range input
types this usually leads to values being clamped to the maximum value
of the input type.  Specify a scale factor or \-float output type to
avoid the problem.
.TP
.I \-abs
calculates the absolute value of each pixel.
.TP
.I \-inv
calculates the inverse value of each pixel.  Note \- with integer input
types and output types this may lead to an image full of zeros and ones.
Specify a scale factor or \-float output type to avoid the problem.
.TP
.B \-auto
automatically calculate scale factor to utilize full range of output
type. Not valid when outputting ECAT file where each plane is given
its own optimum quantification factor.
.TP
.BI \-s \ scale_factor
factor to scale image pixel values by.
Scaling is performed after thresholding and translation.
.TP
.B \-set
new quantification. Normally imgmath resets the quantification values
to reflect the original units. Scaling is then ignored by routines
that read the quantification value.  Since the ECAT format
incorporates a quantification factor on each plane, that can't be
ignored while reading or writing, scaling ECAT files gets totally
ignored without this flag.  With the ANALYZE format the quantification
factor is not fully incorporate and scaling has effect even without
this flag.
.TP
.BI \-t \ translation
translate pixel values by this amount.
This is applied after thresholding but before scaling.
.TP
.BI \-ge \ min_thresh
threshold limiting minimum pixel values from operation (values below the
threshold are set to
.I min_value
).
.TP
.BI \-gf \ min_thresh_factor
calculate
.I min_thresh
based on
.I min_thresh_factor
times maximum pixel value over the whole image
.TP
.BI \-minv \ min_value
only used if
.I min_thresh
or
.I min_thresh_factor
is set.  Then all values less then the threshold will be set to
.I min_value
(defaults to 0).
.TP
.BI \-le \ max_thresh
threshold limitimg maximum pixel values from operation (values above
the threshold are set to
.IB max_value ).
.TP
.BI \-maxv \ max_value
only used if
.I max_thresh
is set.  Then all values greater then
.I max_thresh
will be set to
.I max_value
(defaults to
.I max_thresh
).
.TP
.B \-uchar
output data of type unsigned character(defaults to input data type)
.TP
.B \-char
output data of type signed character
.TP
.B \-ushort
output data of type unsigned short
.TP
.B \-short
output data of type signed short
.TP
.B \-uint
output data of type unsigned integer
.TP
.B \-int
output data of type signed integer
.TP
.B \-float
output data of type float
.TP
.B \-double
output data of type double
.TP
.B \-analyze
output file in ANALYZE format(defaults to input file format)
.TP
.B \-nifti
output file in NIFTI format
.TP
.B \-ecat
output file in ECAT format
.TP
.B \-ecat7
output file in ECAT7 format
.TP
.B \-dicom
output file in DICOM format
.TP
.B \-sdt
output file in SDT format
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR scaleimg(1),
.BR typeconvert(1),
.BR diff2imgs (1),
.BR avgimgs (1),
.BR filterimgs (1),
.BR cnuintro (3)
