.\" @(#)multiimgmath.1;
.TH MULTIIMGMATH 1 "16 January 2003" "CNU Tools" "CNU Tools"
.SH NAME
multiimgmath \- multiple image math functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B multiimgmath
.BI \-list \ listfile
|
.I infile1
[
.I infile2
[
.I infile3
[...]
]
]
.LP
[
.B \-sum
|
.B \-avg
|
.B \-median
|
.B \-min
|
.B \-max
]
.LP
[
.B \-across_idim
|
.B \-across_xdim
|
.B \-across_ydim
|
.B \-across_zdim
]
.BI \-o \ outfile
.LP
[
.B \-uchar
|
.B \-char
|
.B \-ushort
|
.B \-short
|
.B \-uint
|
.B \-int
|
.B \-float
|
.B \-double
]
.LP
[
.B \-analyze
|
.B \-nifti
|
.B \-ecat
|
.B \-ecat7
|
.B \-dicom
|
.B \-sdt
]
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B multiimgmath
calculates the sum, average, median, minimum, or maximumn at each
voxel across multiple images.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -list \ listfile
file containing a list of input image file names.
One file name per line.  Lines
beginning with "#" are ignored as comment lines.
.TP
.I infile1 infile2 infile3 ...
input image file names.  Not compatible with listfile.
.TP
.B \-sum
calculate sum at each voxel
.TP
.B \-avg
calculate average at each voxel
.TP
.B \-median
calculate median at each voxel
.TP
.B \-min
calculate minumum at each voxel
.TP
.B \-max
calculate maximum at each voxel
.TP
.B -across_idim
calculate across the i dimension of a single file instead of across multiple files.
.TP
.B -across_xdim
calculate across the x dimension of a single file instead of across multiple files.
.TP
.B -across_ydim
calculate across the y dimension of a single file instead of across multiple files.
.TP
.B -across_zdim
calculate across the z dimension of a single file instead of across multiple files.
.TP
.BI -o \ outfile
output file name with or without .img extension. Output file type depends
on type of first input image or output type selected.
.TP
.B \-uchar
output data of type unsigned character(defaults to input data type)
.TP
.B \-char
output data of type signed character
.TP
.B \-ushort
output data of type unsigned short
.TP
.B \-short
output data of type signed short
.TP
.B \-uint
output data of type unsigned integer
.TP
.B \-int
output data of type signed integer
.TP
.B \-float
output data of type float
.TP
.B \-double
output data of type double
.TP
.B \-analyze
output file in ANALYZE format(defaults to input file format)
.TP
.B \-nifti
output file in NIFTI format
.TP
.B \-ecat
output file in ECAT format
.TP
.B \-ecat7
output file in ECAT7 format
.TP
.B \-dicom
output file in DICOM format
.TP
.B \-sdt
output file in SDT format
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR imgmath (1),
.BR pcorrelate (1),
.BR ttestimgs (1),
.BR pixelstats (1),
.BR cnuintro (3)
