.\" @(#)niftiheaderedit.1;
.TH NIFTIHEADEREDIT 1 "16 January 2003" "CNU Tools" "CNU Tools"
.SH NAME
niftiheaderedit \- allows editing nifti header files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B niftiheaderedit
.I infile1
[
.B \-textin
]
.I outfile
.LP
[
.BI \-ed \ editor \ | \ \- \ | \ none
]
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B niftiheaderedit
allows interactive or script editting of NIFTI header files.
Either an text editor is invoked on a tmp file containing NIFTI header values
in the form printed by the program niftiheader or lines may be input directly
from standard in.  The lines edited or input directly must correspond to the format
output by niftiheader.  Values not typed in when reading from standard input or
deleted while editing will keep their original values.  A full header with values
changed by the editor or standard in is written to the outfile when the editor is
quit or standard input is ended (as with control-d).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I infile1
input file name with or without .nii extension
.TP
.B \-textin
this option reads the input file as a text file containing lines of the form
output by niftiheader and creates a binary nifti header file.
This the main reason for the editor choice of none.
.TP
.I \ outfile
output file name with or without .hdr extension
.TP
.BI \-ed \ editor \ | \ \- \ | \ none
name of editor such as vi or emacs or \- to read from standard input or
none to not invoke an editor
(none being mainly for the \-textin option).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR niftiheader (1),
.BR cnuintro (3)



