.\" @(#)pcorrelate.1;
.TH PCORRELATE 1 "21 January 2003" "CNU Tools" "CNU Tools"
.SH NAME
pcorrelate \- calculates pixelwise linear correlations coefficients
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B pcorrelate
.BI \-list \ listfile
|
.I infile1
[
.I infile2
[
.I infile3
[...]
]
]
.LP
.BI \-p \ x,y,z,i
|
.BI \-yf \ y_file
[
.B \-print_list
]
.LP
.BI \-o \ outfile
.LP
[
.BI \-templatelist \ templatelistfile
|
.BI \-template \ template1
[
.I template2
[
.I template3
[...]
]
]
[
.BI \-mincnt \ mincount
]
]
.LP
[
.B \-anova
|
.B \-spear
|
.B \-wght
]
.LP
[
.BI \-scale_factors \ scale_factors_file
]
.LP
.B \-across_idim
.LP
[
.B \-uchar
|
.B \-char
|
.B \-ushort
|
.B \-short
|
.B \-uint
|
.B \-int
|
.B \-float
|
.B \-double
]
.LP
[
.B \-analyze
|
.B \-nifti
|
.B \-ecat
|
.B \-ecat7
|
.B \-dicom
|
.B \-sdt
]
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B pcorrelate
calculates the Pearson's linear correlation coefficient between a list
of y values and the pixels across a list of images. Each correlation
is calculated only from pixels at a same location across all the
images. The number of images and number of y values must be the same
and in proper order. All input images must have the same dimensions.
The output is an image the same dimension as the input images with
each pixel representing that locations correlation value. The y
values may also specified by giving a pixel location. The correlation
at that location would then be 1 because it would be correlated with
itself.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -list \ listfile
file containing a list of input image file names in
the correct order for correlation. One file name per line. Lines
beginning with "#" are ignored as comment lines. The image order must
correspond with the y values.
.TP
.I infile1 infile2 infile3 ...
input image file names in the correct order for correlation.
Not compatible with listfile.
.TP
.BI -p \ x,y,z,i
pixel location to get y values from input images. This is an
alternative to inputing a y values from a file. It produces the
correlation of this location with all other pixels locations across
images. The pixel location correlated with itself will produce a 1 at
this location in the output image.
.TP
.BI -yf \ y_file
name of file to read y values from. This is an ascii file containing
a list of numbers. All standard scanf floating point number formats
are allowed(ie. 2.345, 9.34e-2). One number per line. Lines
beginning with "#" are ignored as comments. The order must correspond
to the image list order.
.TP
.B -print_list
print a list of input image file names along side of
corresponding y values. Useful for checking correct ordering of
correlation.
.TP
.BI -o \ outfile
output file name with or without .img extension. Output file is in either
ANALYZE or ECAT depending on type of first input image.
.TP
.BI -templatelist \ templatelistfile
file containing a list of template file names in
the correct order for templating each input image. One file name per line. Lines
beginning with "#" are ignored as comment lines. An image file will contribute only
to voxels where the corresponding template file voxel is greater then 0.5.
.TP
.BI -template \ template1\ template2\ template3\ ...
input template file names in the correct order corresponding to image files.
Treated as files from templatelistfile above. Not compatible with templatelistfile.
.TP
.BI -mincnt \ mincount
minimum number of values needed to calculate a correlation at a voxel. If not enough
images contribute to a voxel, due to templates, the correlation for that voxel is set
to 0.
.TP
.B -across_idim
calculate across the i dimension of a single file instead of across multiple files.
.TP
.BI -scale_factors \ scale_factors_file
scale each input image by the corresponding factor before performing correlation.
Allows use of image normalization factors without storing intermediate images.
.TP
.B -anova
perform analysis of variance test instead of Pearson's correlation.
.TP
.B -spear
calculate Spearman rank-order correlation coefficients instead of
Pearson's linear.
.TP
.B -wght
calculate a weighted sum of pixels across images instead of standard correlations.
.TP
.B \-uchar
output data of type unsigned character(defaults to input data type)
.TP
.B \-char
output data of type signed character
.TP
.B \-ushort
output data of type unsigned short
.TP
.B \-short
output data of type signed short
.TP
.B \-uint
output data of type unsigned integer
.TP
.B \-int
output data of type signed integer
.TP
.B \-float
output data of type float
.TP
.B \-double
output data of type double
.TP
.B \-analyze
output file in ANALYZE format(defaults to input file format)
.TP
.B \-nifti
output file in NIFTI format
.TP
.B \-ecat
output file in ECAT format
.TP
.B \-ecat7
output file in ECAT7 format
.TP
.B \-dicom
output file in DICOM format
.TP
.B \-sdt
output file in SDT format
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ttestimgs (1),
.BR pixelstats (1),
.BR cnuintro (3)
