.\" @(#)petpoint.1;
.TH PETPOINT 1 "6 June 1994" "CNU Tools" "CNU Tools"
.SH NAME
petpoint \- converts Talairach locations(mm) into image pixel indices.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B petpoint
.PD 0
[
.BI \-tf \ talairach_image_file
|
.BI \-nf \ nontaliarach_image_file
[
.BI \-mf \ mapfile
]
]
.LP
[
.BI \-p \ x,y,z
|
.BI \-pf \ point_file
]
.LP
[
.BI \-xf \ x_factor
]
[
.BI \-yf \ y_factor
]
[
.BI \-zf \ z_factor
]
.LP
[
.BI \-xt \ x_translation
]
[
.BI \-yt \ y_translation
]
[
.BI \-zt \ z_translation
]
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B petpoint
converts single or list of Talairach locations(mm) into image pixel
indices. If non-Talairach image file and no map file specified prompts
user for mapping parameters similar to the program talairach.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-tf \ talairach_image_file
ANALYZE image warped into Talairach space for which pixel indices are
desired
.TP
.BI \-nf \ nontaliarach_image_file
ANALYZE image not warped into Talairach space for which pixel indices
are desired
.TP
.BI \-mf \ mapfile
input file to take mapping parameters from instead of user input(ignored for
talairach image files)
.TP
.BI \-p \ x,y,z
talairach location in mm
.TP
.BI \-pf \ point_file
file containing list of talairach locations. The locations must be at the
beginning of a line. Lines not containing 3 numbers at the beginning are passed
through unaltered. The 3 numbers themselves are converted and output with
remainder of the line echoed. Spacing for these lines may be
altered.
.TP
.I x_factor, y_factor, z_factor
scale factors to apply to indices points
.TP
.I x_translation, y_translation, z_translation
translations to add to indices points after multiplying by
factors and as the last step prior output

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR talairachpoint (1),
.BR talairach (1),
.BR talairachgrid(1),
.BR pearl (1),
.BR cnuintro (3)
