.\" @(#)pixelstats.1;
.TH PIXELSTATS 1 "13 July 2001" "CNU Tools" "CNU Tools"
.SH NAME
pixelstats \- calculate statistics pixel wise across data images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B pixelstats
(
[
.B \-t
|
.B \-td
]
.BI \-list \ list_file
.LP
|
.I infile1
[
.I infile2
[
.I infile3
[...]
]
]
.LP
[
.B \-t
|
.B \-td
[
.B \-nt
]
.I templatefile1
[
.I templatefile2
[...]
]
]
)
.LP
[
.BI \-avg \ averagefile
[
.BI \-mac \ min_avg_count
]
]
.LP
[
.BI \-std \ stdfile
[
.BI \-msc \ min_std_count
]
]
.LP
[
.BI \-min \ minfile
]
[
.BI \-max \ maxfile
]
[
.BI \-maxmag \ maxmagfile
]
.LP
[
.BI \-cnt \ cntfile
]
.LP
[
.BI \-rank \ imgtorank
[
.B \-r2tail
|
.B \-rnegtail
]
[
.BI \-rcnt \ rank_ge_cnt_outfile
]
[
.BI \-rprob \ rankproboutfile
]
]
.LP
[
.B \-uchar
|
.B \-char
|
.B \-ushort
|
.B \-short
|
.B \-uint
|
.B \-int
|
.B \-float
|
.B \-double
]
.LP
[
.B \-analyze
|
.B \-nifti
|
.B \-ecat
|
.B \-ecat7
|
.B \-dicom
|
.B \-sdt
]
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B pixelstats
accumlates some standard statistics for each voxel location across images.
.TP
.B Note
\- ANALYZE output is truncated to fit output type without scaling.
The output type defaults to largest input type.
ECAT output is scaled because the quantification factor is more
rigidly implemented.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -list \ listfile
file containing list of image file names to calculate
statistics on.  The file should contain one line per input image file
with the name of the image file and if needed the name of the
corresponding template file.  Template file names are ignored without
-t or -td option.
.TP
.I infile1 infile2 infile3 ...
file names of images to calculate statistics on with or
without .img.  Requires at least one input file. All arguments not
recognized as other options and prior to -t or -td option are treated
as these input file names.
.TP
.BI -avg \ averagefile
output file name for average file with or without .img extension.
.TP
.BI -mac \ min_avg_count
minimum number of contributing pixels used to calculate an average.
Output pixel value set to zero when fewer then min_avg_count input
pixels contribute.  Value should be at least one. Defaults to one.
.TP
.BI -std \ stdfile
output file name for standard deviation file with or without .img
extension.
.TP
.BI -msc \ min_std_count
minimum number of contributing pixels used to calculate an standard
deviation.  Output pixel value set to zero when fewer then
min_std_count input pixels contribute.  This number must be greater
then min_avg_count and at least 2.  Defaults to 2.
.TP
.BI -cnt \ cntfile
output file name for count file with or without .img extension.  This
file will contain the count used to calculate the mean and standard
deviation at each pixel.  Not thresholded for minimum count values.
.TP
.BI -min \ minfile
output file name for minimum file with or without .img extension. This
file will contain the minimum values for each voxel accross images.
.TP
.BI -max \ maxfile
output file name for maximum file with or without .img extension. This
file will contain the maximum values for each voxel accross images.
.TP
.BI -maxmag \ maxmagfile
output file name for maximum magnitude file with or without .img extension. This
file will contain the maximum magnitude values for each voxel accross images.
.TP
.BI -rank \ imgtorank
specifies an image file to rank each voxel relative to corresponding voxels
in other input files
.TP
.B -r2tail
generate 2 tail rank instead of 1 tail. Requires -rank option.
The rank_ge_cnt_outfile and rankproboutfile will be based on
voxels that were greater or equal in magnitude to the
corresponding imgtorank voxel.
.TP
.B -rnegtail
generate rank on negative tail instead of positive.
The rank_ge_cnt_outfile and rankproboutfile will be based on
voxels that were less then or equal to the corresponding imgtorank voxel.
.TP
.BI -rcnt \ rank_ge_cnt_outfile
output file name for image that contains the counts of number of
voxels that were greater or equal to the corresponding imgtorank voxel
.TP
.BI -rprob \ rankproboutfile
output file name for image that contains ratio of voxels that
were greater or equal to the corresponding imgtorank voxel divided
by total number of corresponding voxels
.TP
.BI -max \ maxfile
output file name for maximum file with or without .img extension. This
file will contain the maximum values for each voxel accross images.
.TP
.B \-t
And together template files so that only pixels that are greater then
zero in all templates are set in the result files.  Other pixels
default to 0.  There can be any number of template files.  If used
with the -list option templates are read from the listfile.
Without -list file names following -t are treated as template files.
.TP
.B \-td
treat any further unrecognized arguments as templates to be applied in
order to the input files.  Each input file will only contributes
pixels where its corresponding template image is greater then zero.
The average image defaults to zero where the number of contributing
input files is less then min_avg_count.  The standard deviation image
defaults to zero where the number of contributing input files is less
then min_std_count.  There must be as many template files as input
files.
.TP
.B \-nt
normalize input images by scaling means to 1000 based on templated mean. Requires -td option.
.TP
.I templatefile1 templatefile2 ...
file names of templates to be applied to added image. Arguments not
fitting other options following -t or -td are treated as these
template file names.
.TP
.B \-uchar
output data of type unsigned character(defaults to input data type)
.TP
.B \-char
output data of type signed character
.TP
.B \-ushort
output data of type unsigned short
.TP
.B \-short
output data of type signed short
.TP
.B \-uint
output data of type unsigned integer
.TP
.B \-int
output data of type signed integer
.TP
.B \-float
output data of type float
.TP
.B \-double
output data of type double
.TP
.B \-analyze
output file in ANALYZE format(defaults to input file format)
.TP
.B \-nifti
output file in NIFTI format
.TP
.B \-ecat
output file in ECAT format
.TP
.B \-ecat7
output file in ECAT7 format
.TP
.B \-dicom
output file in DICOM format
.TP
.B \-sdt
output file in SDT format
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR addimgs (1),
.BR divideimgs (1),
.BR cnuintro (3)
