.\" @(#)resliceimg.1;
.TH RESLICEIMG 1 "27 Febuary 2001" "CNU Tools" "CNU Tools"
.SH NAME
resliceimg \- reslices an image in x, y, and z with nearest pixel
or linear interpolation sampling. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B resliceimg
.PD 0
.I infile
.I outfile
[
.B \-interpolate
]
.LP
[
[
.BI \-t \ transform_string
]
[
.B -invert
]
]
.LP
[
.BI \-xf \ x_factor
|
.BI \-xr \ x_outres
]
.LP
[
.BI \-yf \ y_factor
|
.BI \-yr \ y_outres
]
.LP
[
.BI \-zf \ z_factor
|
.BI \-zr \ z_outres
]
.LP
[
.BI \-if \ i_factor
|
.BI \-ir \ i_outres
]
.LP
[
.BI \-transform_origin \ x,y,z
]
.LP
[
.BI \-np \ number_of_planes_to_buffer
]
.LP
[
.B \-resize
]
.LP
[
.BI \-outsize \ xdim,ydim,zdim
]
.LP
[
.B \-uchar
|
.B \-char
|
.B \-ushort
|
.B \-short
|
.B \-uint
|
.B \-int
|
.B \-float
|
.B \-double
]
.LP
[
.B \-analyze
|
.B \-nifti
|
.B \-ecat
|
.B \-ecat7
|
.B \-dicom
|
.B \-sdt
]
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B resliceimg
reslices an ANALYZE or ECAT image in x, y, and z with nearest pixel
or linear interpolation sampling.  The reslicing may be specified as
scaling factors, desired output resolution or as a transform matrix.
The output image defaults to the same size as the input unless -resize
or -outsize options are used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I infile
input ANALYZE or ECAT file name with or without .img extension
.TP
.I outfile
output ANALYZE/ECAT file name with or without .img extension
.TP
.B \-interpolate
apply linear interpolation instead of nearest pixel sampling
.TP
.I transform_string
transformation string describing rotations, translations and scales to
derive output voxel locations from input voxel locations.  The string
is interpreted as a list of single degree options applied in order
from right to left.  Each single degree option is designated by a
capital letter representing the type ("R" for rotation in radians, "D"
for rotation in degrees, "T" for translation in meters, "P" for
translation in pixels and "S" for scale factor) followed by a small
letter representing the axis (x, y, or z), a floating point value, and
a capital letter "X" as a seperator.  A capital "X" must also occur at
the start of the string.  As an example
"XRx.3839724XDz-15XPy-1.4XTz0.003X" represents a translation of 3 mm
along the z-axis, followed by a translation of -1.4 pixels along the y
axis, followed by a rotation of -15 degrees around the z-axis, and
lastly a rotation of .3839724 radians around the x axis.
.TP
.B \-invert
apply the inverse of the matrix designated by transform_string.
.TP
.I x_factor, y_factor, z_factor, i_factor
factor to scale the resolution in each dimension by
(magnitudes > 1 decrease size and magnitudes < 1 increase size)
.TP
.I x_outres, y_outres, z_outres, i_outres
desired output resolutions
(factors set to achieve the given resolutions from input resolutions)
.TP
.BI \-transform_origin \ x,y,z
origin location on input image to base transform from in voxels.  May
designate subvoxel locations with floating point numbers.  Defaults to
the center of the input image.
.TP
.I number_of_planes_to_buffer
number of z planes the program will buffer.  When interpolating between
planes or rotating around x or y axis, increasing this number may increase
speed by reducing the need to re-read planes from the input file.  Defaults to
2.
.TP
.B \-resize
set the size of the output image to that which can contain every pixel
mapped from the input image.  Normally the output size is set to the
same as the input which may produce clipping in rotated or zoomed
images. This feature may shift the output origin.  Ignored if -outsize
option given.
.TP
.I xdim, ydim, zdim
Dimensions for output file.  Keeps the the notion of output origin as
dictated by input image origin and shifts.  Overides -resize option.
.TP
.B \-uchar
output data of type unsigned character(defaults to input data type)
.TP
.B \-char
output data of type signed character
.TP
.B \-ushort
output data of type unsigned short
.TP
.B \-short
output data of type signed short
.TP
.B \-uint
output data of type unsigned integer
.TP
.B \-int
output data of type signed integer
.TP
.B \-float
output data of type float
.TP
.B \-double
output data of type double
.TP
.B \-analyze
output file in ANALYZE format(defaults to input file format)
.TP
.B \-nifti
output file in NIFTI format
.TP
.B \-ecat
output file in ECAT format
.TP
.B \-ecat7
output file in ECAT7 format
.TP
.B \-dicom
output file in DICOM format
.TP
.B \-sdt
output file in SDT format
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR resample(1),
.BR typeconvert(1),
.BR diff2imgs (1),
.BR avgimgs (1),
.BR filterimgs (1),
.BR cnuintro (3)
