.\" @(#)roistats.1;
.TH ROISTATS 1 "18 December 2000" "CNU Tools" "CNU Tools"
.SH NAME
roistats \- region of interest statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B roistats
.I infile
[
.B -q
]
[
.BI \-o \ templated_outfile
]
.LP
[
.B \-or
]
.LP
[
.BI \-b \ xorig,yorig,zorig,xend,yend,zend
]
.LP
[
.BI \-bc \ xcenter,ycenter,zcenter,xlength,ylength,zlength
]
.LP
[
.BI \-c \ xcenter,ycenter,zcenter,radius
]
.LP
[
.BI \-e \ xcenter,ycenter,zcenter,xlength,ylength,zlength
]
.LP
[
.BI \-irange \ ibegin,iend
]
.LP
[
.BI \-tf \ template_file
]
.LP
[
.BI \-ttfn \ threshold,template_file
]
.LP
[
.BI \-tmmtfn \ minthresh,maxthresh,template_file
]
.LP
[
.BI \-tp \ threshold_percent
] [
.BI \-tpn \ threshold_percent
]
.LP
[
.BI \-t \ threshold
] [
.BI \-tn \ threshold
]
.LP
[
.BI \-topn \ N
]
[
.BI \-bottomn \ N
]
.LP
[
.B \-min
][
.B \-minloc
][
.B \-max
][
.B \-maxloc
]
.LP
[
.B \-mean
][
.B \-npixels
][
.B \-sum
][
.B \-sumsqr
][
.B \-cm
]
.LP
[
.B \-var
][
.B \-stddev
][
.B \-adev
]
.LP
[
.B \-notext
][
.B \-scientific
][
.BI \-precision \ digits
]
.LP
[
.B \-uchar
|
.B \-char
|
.B \-ushort
|
.B \-short
|
.B \-uint
|
.B \-int
|
.B \-float
|
.B \-double
]
.LP
[
.B \-analyze
|
.B \-nifti
|
.B \-ecat
|
.B \-ecat7
|
.B \-dicom
|
.B \-sdt
]
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B roistats
calculates statistics over a region of interest(ROI) defined by a box,
sphere, ellipsoid, template file, or thershold. More then one ROI may
be specified and they are anded together to form a new ROI that covers
areas only common to all.  When the input image contains more then one
frame (i-dimension) the shapes are duplicated for all the frames
unless an i range is specified.  Statistics calculated are maximum,
minimum, mean, variance, standard deviation, mean absolute deviation
and center of mass.  Variance, standard deviation and mean absolute
deviation are calculated by a two-pass algorithm to reduce round off
error.  With one or more statistics flags such as "-mean" only the
flagged values are output.  These flags along with "-notext" are
useful in generating inputs to other routines.  This routine can also
be used to get single pixel values by specifing a sphere (-c) radius
of zero.
.LP
Note \- Center of mass calculations include both positive and negative
pixels within the region of interest.  For calculations with large
number of negative or positive outlyers contributing it may be worth
thresholding the region of interest to contain just positive values
(ie. -tn 0).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I infile
input image file name with or without .img extension
.TP
.B \-q
quantify output values by the image word resolution.  No affect on
original ecat file type because it has a word resolution that varies
between planes which requires quantifying on read and keeping internal
representation as quantified float values.
.TP
.BI \-o \ templated_outfile
optional output file with points outside the ROI zeroed and
points inside set to the input image values. Corresponds to data used
to calculate stats.
.TP
.B \-or
or together templates requiring only one template to pass at a voxel
to be included in the stats instead of default(ending together)
requiring all templates to pass
.TP
.BI \-b \ xorig,yorig,zorig,xend,yend,zend
bounds in pixel coordinates describing a box area
to calculate the statistic over.
.TP
.BI \-bc \ xcenter,ycenter,zcenter,xlength,ylength,zlength
centroid and size in pixel coordinates describing a box area
to calculate the statistic over.
.TP
.BI \-c \ xcenter,ycenter,zcenter,radius
centroid and radius in pixel coordinates describing a spherical area
to calculate the statistic over.
.TP
.BI -e \ xcenter,ycenter,zcenter,xlength,ylength,zlength
centroid and major axis lengths in pixel coordinates describing a
spherical area to calculate the statistic over.
.TP
.BI -irange \ ibegin,iend
range of i dimensions to duplicate shapes into when calculating statistics.
Defaults to all i dimensions.
.TP
.BI \-tf \ template_file
file containing template image with positive values indicating pixels to
include in the statistics
.TP
.BI \-ttfn \ threshold,template_file
threshold and a file containing a template image with values above threshold
indicating voxels to include in the statistics
.TP
.BI \-tmmtfn \ minthresh,maxthresh,template_file
.I template_file
with values above
.I minthresh
and below
.I maxthresh
indicating voxels to include in the statistics
.TP
.BI \-tp \ threshold_percent
percent of input image maximum to use as threshold for determining
pixels included in the statistics. The template is built as noted for
threshold \-t option.
.TP
.BI \-tpn \ threshold_percent
percent of input image maximum to use as threshold for determining
pixels included in the statistics. The template is built as noted for
threshold \-tn option.
.TP
.BI \-t \ threshold
threshold to use for determining pixels included in the statistics.
Note \- a template is built by inward scanning in x and y until
values are greater or equal to thershold and this template defines
the pixels to include in the statistics. See templateimg.
.TP
.BI \-tn \ threshold
threshold to use for determining pixels included in the statistics.
Note \- only pixels at or above the threshold are included with no
filling.
.TP
.BI \-topn \ N
use only N top(maximum value) voxels in the statistics.
Note \- unless or-ing together templates (i.e. "-or" flag) all previously listed
templates reduce voxels included in the search for top voxels. Unlike most templates
order matters for this option.
.TP
.BI \-bottomn \ N
use only N bottom(minimum value) voxels in the statistics.
Note \- unless or-ing together templates (i.e. "-or" flag) all previously listed
templates reduce voxels included in the search for bottom voxels. Unlike most templates
order matters for this option.
.TP
.B \-scientific
print number values in scientific format
.TP
.BI \-precision \ digits
print numbers with
.I digits
precision
.TP
.B \-min \-minloc \-max \-maxloc \-mean \-npixels \-sum \-sumsqr \-var \-stddev \-adev \-cm
these flags specify which statistics to print.  Defaults to all
statistics when none are specified.
.TP
.B \-notext
turns off output annotation
.TP
.B \-uchar
output data of type unsigned character(default)
.TP
.B \-char
output data of type signed character
.TP
.B \-ushort
output data of type usigned short
.TP
.B \-short
output data of type short
.TP
.B \-uint
output data of type usigned integer
.TP
.B \-int
output data of type integer
.TP
.B \-float
output data of type float
.TP
.B \-double
output data of type double
.TP
.B \-analyze
output file in ANALYZE format(defaults to input file format)
.TP
.B \-nifti
output file in NIFTI format(defaults to input file format)
.TP
.B \-ecat
output file in ECAT format(defaults to input file format)
.TP
.B \-ecat7
output file in ECAT7 format(defaults to input file format)
.TP
.B \-dicom
output file in DICOM format(defaults to input file format)
.TP
.B \-sdt
output file in SDT format(defaults to input file format)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cnuintro (1),
.BR bldtemplate (1),
.BR templateimg (1),
.BR scaleimg (1),
.BR bldshape (1)

