.\" @(#)scaleimg.1;
.TH SCALEIMG 1 "21 January 2003" "CNU Tools" "CNU Tools"
.SH NAME
scaleimg \- linearly scale with thresholds voxels of a data image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scaleimg
.PD 0
.I infile
.I outfile
[
.B \-auto
|
.BI \-s \ scale_factor
]
.LP
[
.B \-set[_new_quantification]
]
[
.BI \-t \ translation
]
.LP
[
.BI \-ge \ min_thresh
|
.BI \-gf \ min_thresh_factor
[
.BI \-minv \ min_value
]
]
.LP
[
.BI \-le \ max_thresh
[
.BI \-maxv \ max_value
]
]
.LP
[
.B \-uchar
|
.B \-char
|
.B \-ushort
|
.B \-short
|
.B \-uint
|
.B \-int
|
.B \-float
|
.B \-double
]
.LP
[
.B \-analyze
|
.B \-nifti
|
.B \-ecat
|
.B \-ecat7
|
.B \-dicom
|
.B \-sdt
]
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B scaleimg
scales or thresholds a data image. Scaling an ECAT image
does nothing unless given the "-set_new_quantification" flag. That's
because ECAT files incorporate the quantification factor completely
into each plane. With ANALYZE files the quantification value is
stored in a non-standard location where it is used only to maintain
units and is ignored by most routines.
Other file types may have different quantification problems.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I infile
input image file name with or without type extension(e.g., ".img")
.TP
.I outfile
output image file name with or without type extension(e.g., ".img")
.TP
.B \-auto
automatically calculate scale factor to utilize full range of output
type. Not valid when outputting ECAT file where each plane is given
its own optimum quantification factor.
.TP
.BI \-s \ scale_factor
factor to scale image pixel values by.
Scaling is performed after thresholding and translation.
.TP
.B \-set
new quantification. Normally scaleimg resets the quantification values
to reflect the original units. Scaling is then ignored by routines
that read the quantification value. Since the ECAT format
incorporates a quantification factor on each plane, that can't be
ignored while reading or writing, scaling ECAT files gets totally
ignored without this flag. With the ANALYZE format the quantification
factor is not fully incorporate and scaling has effect even without
this flag.
.TP
.BI \-t \ translation
translate pixel values by this amount.
This is applied after thresholding but before scaling.
.TP
.BI \-ge \ min_thresh
threshold limiting minimum input pixel values (values below the
threshold are set to
.I min_value
).
.TP
.BI \-gf \ min_thresh_factor
calculate
.I min_thresh
based on
.I min_thresh_factor
times maximum pixel value over the whole image
.TP
.BI \-minv \ min_value
only used if
.I min_thresh
or
.I min_thresh_factor
is set. Then all values less then the threshold will be set to
.I min_value
(defaults to 0).
.TP
.BI \-le \ max_thresh
threshold limitimg maximum input pixel values (values above
the threshold are set to
.IB max_value ).
.TP
.BI \-maxv \ max_value
only used if
.I max_thresh
is set. Then all values greater then
.I max_thresh
will be set to
.I max_value
(defaults to
.I max_thresh
).
.TP
.B \-uchar
output data of type unsigned character(defaults to input data type)
.TP
.B \-char
output data of type signed character
.TP
.B \-ushort
output data of type unsigned short
.TP
.B \-short
output data of type signed short
.TP
.B \-uint
output data of type unsigned integer
.TP
.B \-int
output data of type signed integer
.TP
.B \-float
output data of type float
.TP
.B \-double
output data of type double
.TP
.B \-analyze
output file in ANALYZE format(defaults to input file format)
.TP
.B \-nifti
output file in NIFTI format
.TP
.B \-ecat
output file in ECAT format
.TP
.B \-ecat7
output file in ECAT7 format
.TP
.B \-dicom
output file in DICOM format
.TP
.B \-sdt
output file in SDT format
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR scalieimg(3),
.BR typeconvert(1),
.BR diff2imgs (1),
.BR avgimgs (1),
.BR filterimgs (1),
.BR cnuintro (3)
