.\" @(#)satimgchange.1;
.TH STATIMGCHANGE 1 "21 January 2003" "CNU Tools" "CNU Tools"
.SH NAME
statimgchange \- statistical image change
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B statimgchange
.I infile
.I outfile
.LP
.I \-z_to_prob
|
.I \-prob_to_z
|
.BI \-pow \ power
|
.BI \-cunjunct \ power
.LP
[
.B \-auto
|
.BI \-s \ scale_factor
]
.LP
[
.B \-set[_new_quantification]
]
[
.BI \-t \ translation
]
.LP
[
.BI \-ge \ min_thresh
|
.BI \-gf \ min_thresh_factor
[
.BI \-minv \ min_value
]
]
.LP
[
.BI \-le \ max_thresh
[
.BI \-maxv \ max_value
]
]
.LP
[
.B \-uchar
|
.B \-char
|
.B \-ushort
|
.B \-short
|
.B \-uint
|
.B \-int
|
.B \-float
|
.B \-double
]
.LP
[
.B \-analyze
|
.B \-nifti
|
.B \-ecat
|
.B \-ecat7
|
.B \-dicom
|
.B \-sdt
]
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B statimgchange
converts statistics between probability and z values and allows converting
minimum z values from multiple studies into a conjoined z-value.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I infile
input image file
.TP
.I outfile
output image file.  The output file type defaults to input type.
.TP
.B -z_to_prob
convert the z statistical values into probabilities
.TP
.B -prob_to_z
convert the probability values into z statistics
.TP
.BI -pow \ power
raise the image values to the given power
.TP
.BI -conjucnt \ power
convert z values to probabilities, raise the probabilities to the given power,
and convert the reased probabilities back into z values.  Used for conjunction
analysis where input z values are minimums across power number of images.
.TP
.B \-auto
automatically calculate scale factor to utilize full range of output
type. Not valid when outputting ECAT file where each plane is given
its own optimum quantification factor.
.TP
.BI \-s \ scale_factor
factor to scale image pixel values by.
Scaling is performed after thresholding and translation.
.TP
.B \-set
new quantification. Normally scaling resets the quantification values
to reflect the original units. Scaling is then ignored by routines
that read the quantification value.  Since the ECAT format
incorporates a quantification factor on each plane, that can't be
ignored while reading or writing, scaling ECAT files gets totally
ignored without this flag.  With the ANALYZE format the quantification
factor is not fully incorporate and scaling has effect even without
this flag.
.TP
.BI \-t \ translation
translate pixel values by this amount.
This is applied after thresholding but before scaling.
.TP
.BI \-ge \ min_thresh
threshold limiting minimum output pixel values (values below the
threshold are set to
.I min_value
).
.TP
.BI \-gf \ min_thresh_factor
calculate
.I min_thresh
based on
.I min_thresh_factor
times maximum pixel value over the whole image
.TP
.BI \-minv \ min_value
only used if
.I min_thresh
or
.I min_thresh_factor
is set.  Then all values less then the threshold will be set to
.I min_value
(defaults to 0).
.TP
.BI \-le \ max_thresh
threshold limitimg maximum output pixel values (values above
the threshold are set to
.IB max_value ).
.TP
.BI \-maxv \ max_value
only used if
.I max_thresh
is set.  Then all values greater then
.I max_thresh
will be set to
.I max_value
(defaults to
.I max_thresh
).
.TP
.B \-uchar
output data of type unsigned character(defaults to input data type)
.TP
.B \-char
output data of type signed character
.TP
.B \-ushort
output data of type unsigned short
.TP
.B \-short
output data of type signed short
.TP
.B \-uint
output data of type unsigned integer
.TP
.B \-int
output data of type signed integer
.TP
.B \-float
output data of type float
.TP
.B \-double
output data of type double
.TP
.B \-analyze
output file in ANALYZE format(defaults to input file format)
.TP
.B \-nifti
output file in NIFTI format
.TP
.B \-ecat
output file in ECAT format
.TP
.B \-ecat7
output file in ECAT7 format
.TP
.B \-dicom
output file in DICOM format
.TP
.B \-sdt
output file in SDT format
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ttestimgs (1),
.BR pixelstats (1),
.BR cnuintro (3)
