.\" @(#)subregion.1;
.TH SUBREGION 1 "2 August 1994" "CNU Tools" "CNU Tools"
.SH NAME
subregion \- select a subregion of an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B subregion
.PD 0
.I infile
.I outfile
[
.B \-resize
]
[
.B \-center
]
[
.BI \-p \ padvalue
]
.LP
[
.BI \-xb \ xbeg
]
[
.BI \-xe \ xend
]
[
.BI \-yb \ ybeg
]
[
.BI \-ye \ yend
]
.LP
[
.BI \-zb \ zbeg
]
[
.BI \-ze \ zend
]
[
.BI \-ib \ ibeg
]
[
.BI \-ie \ iend
]
.LP
[
.B \-uchar
|
.B \-char
|
.B \-ushort
|
.B \-short
|
.B \-uint
|
.B \-int
|
.B \-float
|
.B \-double
]
.LP
[
.B \-analyze
|
.B \-nifti
|
.B \-ecat
|
.B \-ecat7
|
.B \-dicom
|
.B \-sdt
]
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B subregion
outputs a select region of the input image. The output image will have the same
dimensions as the input with the area outside the subregion set to 0 or
padvalue. The \-resize option causes the output file to contain only
the subregion with no padding.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I infile
input ANALYZE or ECAT file name with or without .img extension
.TP
.I outfile
output ANALYZE/ECAT file name with or without .img extension. Output
file will be same type as input file
.TP
.B \-resize
resize output image to contain only the subregion
.TP
.B \-center
center subregion on output image. Only makes sense if not resized.
.TP
.BI \-p \ padvalue
fill value for area outside of subregion(defaults to 0).
Not used when image is resized.
.TP
.I xbeg, ybeg, zbeg, ibeg
Beginning location of subregion. Values not specified default to input image
origin.
.TP
.I xend, yend, zend, iend
Ending location of subregion. Values not specified default to input image end.
.TP
.B \-uchar
output data of type unsigned character(defaults to input data type)
.TP
.B \-char
output data of type signed character
.TP
.B \-ushort
output data of type unsigned short
.TP
.B \-short
output data of type signed short
.TP
.B \-uint
output data of type unsigned integer
.TP
.B \-int
output data of type signed integer
.TP
.B \-float
output data of type float
.TP
.B \-double
output data of type double
.TP
.B \-analyze
output file in ANALYZE format(defaults to input file format)
.TP
.B \-nifti
output file in NIFTI format
.TP
.B \-ecat
output file in ECAT format
.TP
.B \-ecat7
output file in ECAT7 format
.TP
.B \-dicom
output file in DICOM format
.TP
.B \-sdt
output file in SDT format
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cnuintro (3),
.BR brainextents (1),
.BR ecat2analyze (1)
