.\" @(#)talairach.1;
.TH TALAIRACH 1 "3 January 1994" "CNU Tools" "CNU Tools"
.SH NAME
talairach \- converts an image to taliarach space
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B talairach
.PD 0
.I infile
.I outfile
[
.B \-zdbl
]
[
.B \-r[esize]
]
[
.BI \-mf \ mapfile
]
[
.BI \-wmf \ writemapfile
]
[
.BI \-npgs \ maxnumpgbuffs
]
.LP
[
.B \-uchar
|
.B \-char
|
.B \-ushort
|
.B \-short
|
.B \-uint
|
.B \-int
|
.B \-float
|
.B \-double
]
.LP
[
.B \-analyze
|
.B \-nifti
|
.B \-ecat
|
.B \-ecat7
|
.B \-dicom
|
.B \-sdt
]
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B talairach
converts an image to Talairach space performing linear scaling,
translation and rotation. The routine prompts the user for the front and
back of brain which it uses to set default AC & PC locations and sizes
for the brain. Then it prompts for lengths in x(width of brain),
y(front to back length of brain) and
z(height of brain from AC-PC line to top of head).
Next, it prompts for AC and PC locations with defaults set to standard
Talairach distance between front and back of brain.
Lastly, it prompts for x and z rotations with defaults calculated from
the AC & PC locations. If a mapfile is specified no user input prompting
is performed.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I infile
input ANALYZE or ECAT file name with or without .img extension
.TP
.I outfile
output ANALYZE/ECAT file name with or without .img extension
.TP
.B \-zdbl
double z dimensions by averaging before resampling in talairach to help
smooth output
.TP
.B \-r
resize output image to be larger(30% in x&y and 10% in z) then
the standard talairach brain. If not resized portions of input
image may be shifted or scaled out of the image space.
.TP
.BI \-mf \ mapfile
input file to retrieve mapping parameters from
.TP
.BI \-wmf \ writemapfile
output file write mapping parameters to
.TP
.BI \-npgs \ maxnumpgbuffs
maximum number of input page buffers to create before re-using
buffers.  Each buffer is the size of one input z-plane.  For large
angles ( > 20deg) this routine may have to jump from z-plane to
z-plane often and too few buffers may lead to a lot of reloads.  In
the worse case a reload may occur for every pixel.  If the routine
runs terribly slow set this number equal to or greater then the number
of planes.  This will cause whole input image to load into
memory but is the only way to circumvent reloading.
(default 10)
.TP
.B \-uchar
output data of type unsigned character(defaults to input data type)
.TP
.B \-char
output data of type signed character
.TP
.B \-ushort
output data of type unsigned short
.TP
.B \-short
output data of type signed short
.TP
.B \-uint
output data of type unsigned integer
.TP
.B \-int
output data of type signed integer
.TP
.B \-float
output data of type float
.TP
.B \-double
output data of type double
.TP
.B \-analyze
output file in ANALYZE format(defaults to input file format)
.TP
.B \-nifti
output file in NIFTI format
.TP
.B \-ecat
output file in ECAT format
.TP
.B \-ecat7
output file in ECAT7 format
.TP
.B \-dicom
output file in DICOM format
.TP
.B \-sdt
output file in SDT format
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR talairachgrid (1),
.BR talairachpoint (1),
.BR cnuintro (3)
