.\" @(#)talairachpoint.1;
.TH TALAIRACHPOINT 1 "6 June 1994" "CNU Tools" "CNU Tools"
.SH NAME
talairachpoint \- converts Talairach image pixel indices into Talairach
units(mm).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B talairachpoint
.PD 0
[
.BI \-tf \ talairach_image_file
|
.BI \-nf \ nontaliarach_image_file
[
.BI \-mf \ mapfile
]
]
.LP
[
.BI \-p \ x,y,z
|
.BI \-pf \ point_file
]
.LP
[
.BI \-xf \ x_factor
]
[
.BI \-yf \ y_factor
]
[
.BI \-zf \ z_factor
]
.LP
[
.BI \-xt \ x_translation
]
[
.BI \-yt \ y_translation
]
[
.BI \-zt \ z_translation
]
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B talairachpoint
converts single or list of Talairach pixel indices into Talairach
space units(mm). If non-Talairach image file and no map file specified prompts
user for mapping parameters like the program talairach.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-tf \ talairach_image_file
image warped into Talairach space from which the pixel indices were
derived
.TP
.BI \-nf \ nontaliarach_image_file
image not warped into Talairach space from which the pixel indices
were derived
.TP
.BI \-mf \ mapfile
input file to take mapping parameters from instead of user input(ignored for
talairach image files)
.TP
.BI \-p \ x,y,z
pixel indices in the talairach image \- may be subpixel floating point numbers
.TP
.BI \-pf \ point_file
file containing list of points to be converted. The points must be at the
beginning of a line. Lines not containing 3 numbers at the beginning are passed
through unaltered. The 3 numbers themselves are converted and output
with the remainder of the line echoed. Spacing for these lines may be
altered.
.TP
.I x_factor, y_factor, z_factor
scale factors to multiply indices points by before further conversion
.TP
.I x_translation, y_translation, z_translation
translations to add to indice points after multiplying by
factors and before further conversion

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR petpoint (1),
.BR talairach (1),
.BR talairachgrid(1),
.BR pearl (1),
.BR cnuintro (3)
