.\" @(#)ttestimgs.1;
.TH TTESTIMGS 1 "12 June 1997" "CNU Tools" "CNU Tools"
.SH NAME
ttestimgs \- performs pixelwise students t-tests with "pooled variance"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B ttestimgs
.BI \-m1 \ meanfile1
.BI \-s1 \ stdfile1
.BI \-n1 \ cntfile1
.BI \-m2 \ meanfile2
.BI \-s2 \ stdfile2
.BI \-n2 \ cntfile2
[
.BI \-mc \ mincnt
|
.BI \-mc1 \ mincnt1
.BI \-mc2 \ mincnt2
]
.B outfile
.LP
[
.B \-uchar
|
.B \-char
|
.B \-ushort
|
.B \-short
|
.B \-uint
|
.B \-int
|
.B \-float
|
.B \-double
]
.LP
[
.B \-analyze
|
.B \-nifti
|
.B \-ecat
|
.B \-ecat7
|
.B \-dicom
|
.B \-sdt
]
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B ttestimgs
calculates pixelwise the student's t-tests for significantly different
means with "pooled variance" between two groups of images. The
t-tests are performed independently with each pixel location having
its own group means and "pooled variance" calculated only from pixels
at the same location across the images. The images have to have been
preprocessed with pixelstats to generate mean, standard deviation and
pixel count images for each group. It is best if the input means and
standard deviations are stored as floating point images.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -m1 \ meanfile1
image(ANALYZE or ECAT) containing mean values for the first group
.TP
.BI -s1 \ stdfile1
image(ANALYZE or ECAT) containing standard deviation values for the
first group
.TP
.BI -c1 \ cntfile1
image(ANALYZE or ECAT) containing count of number of images
contributing to mean and standard deviation at each pixel for the
first group
.TP
.BI -m2 \ meanfile2
image(ANALYZE or ECAT) containing mean values for the second group
.TP
.BI -s2 \ stdfile2
image(ANALYZE or ECAT) containing standard deviation values for the
second group
.TP
.BI -c2 \ cntfile2
image(ANALYZE or ECAT) containing count of number of images
contributing to mean and standard deviation at each pixel for the
second group
.TP
.BI -mc \ mincnt
for each indice the corresponding voxels from both cntfile1 and cntfile2 must be
greater or equal to mincnt or the corresponding t-value output voxel is set to zero.
mincnt must be at least 2. This value may be trumped by mincnt1 or mincnt2.
.TP
.BI -mc1 \ mincnt1
for each indice the voxel from cntfile1 must be greater or equal to mincnt1
or the corresponding t-value output voxel is set to zero.
mincnt1 must be at least 2. This value may be trumped by mincnt.
.TP
.BI -mc2 \ mincnt2
for each indice the voxel from cntfile2 must be greater or equal to mincnt1
or the corresponding t-value output voxel is set to zero.
mincnt2 must be at least 2. This value may be trumped by mincnt.
.TP
.B outfile
output file name to contain t-test image
.TP
.B \-uchar
output data of type unsigned character(defaults to input data type)
.TP
.B \-char
output data of type signed character
.TP
.B \-ushort
output data of type unsigned short
.TP
.B \-short
output data of type signed short
.TP
.B \-uint
output data of type unsigned integer
.TP
.B \-int
output data of type signed integer
.TP
.B \-float
output data of type float
.TP
.B \-double
output data of type double
.TP
.B \-analyze
output file in ANALYZE format(defaults to input file format)
.TP
.B \-nifti
output file in NIFTI format
.TP
.B \-ecat
output file in ECAT format
.TP
.B \-ecat7
output file in ECAT7 format
.TP
.B \-dicom
output file in DICOM format
.TP
.B \-sdt
output file in SDT format
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pcorrelate (1),
.BR pixelstats (1),
